---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
---

Here is a list of the projects I spend most of my time working on.

<h2>in-toto</h2>

in-toto is a series of tools to describe how a software development process
should be performed, and to verify that such processes are followed properly.
By giving these tools to administrators and developers, end users can verify
that the software they are about to install is correct. This means, that such a
package wasn’t tampered in transit, or that no errors were made during the
elaboration of it.  in-toto is currently under development. If you want to read
more, [check out the project’s website](https://in-toto.io).



<h2>PolyPasswordHasher</h2>

PolyPasswordHasher is a secure password storage system. If you are not familiar
with this, here is a video that can help you introduce yourself to this
concept. The idea behind PPH is to make stored passwords interdependent in a
sense that a server (or a hacker) needs to know some password information
before he can check if a password is correct or incorrect. Cracking regular
passwords can be done in a couple of hours.  However, with PPH, we project an
increase in cracking time by years, or millions of years depending on the
configuration. If you want to read more,
[check out the project’s website](https://pph.io).

<h2>TUF</h2>

TUF (short for The Update Framework) is a secure software update system. It is
intended to be easy to integrate into existing update systems and protects
against usual software update vulnerabilities.  If you want to read more, go to
the [project’s website](https://theupdateframework.com).

Other interesting projects I’ve contributed to

<h2>Briar</h2>

Briar is a secure, decentralized messaging application for first responders and
activists. There are better descriptions about the motivations of its design
here and here. You can visit [their webiste here](https://briar.org).

<h2>Mutt/NeoMutt</h2>

Mutt is a featureful CLI mail user agent (MUA), and NeoMutt is a friendly fork
of mutt that seeks to incorporate many outside patches to add features or
increase its stability. Their websites are [this](https://mutt.org) and
[this](https://neomutt.org).

<h2>Other projects</h2>

I’m usually involved in different small-scale or experimental projects. If you
would like to take a look at other code made by myself take a look at my
[GitHub profile](https://github.com/santiagotorres).
